Ms. Sanders: Good afternoon.
Today, I had
the opportunity to visit
the National Safety
Council's Opioid Memorial
on the Ellipse.
It's a moving experience.
President Trump
and the First Lady
encourage you all
to visit the memorial
before it leaves Washington,
D.C. on April 18th.
Today at the Summit
of Americas in Lima, Peru,
Assistant to the President
and Advisor Ivanka Trump,
Overseas Private
Investment Corporation,
and the Acting U.S.
Secretary of State
announced OPIC's 2X
Americas Latin
American women's initiative
-- say that fast --
which will mobilize $500 million
in private capital
to invest in projects
that empower women
in Latin America.
This new initiative
will help break down barriers
that limit women's full
participation in the economy
and reaffirms the Trump
administration's commitment
to empowering women
in Latin America
and around the globe.
As you all saw,
yesterday's confirmation
hearing for Secretary
of State-designee Mike Pompeo
went very well.
From his years in the Army,
to his time as a key member
of the House
Intelligence Committee,
to his successful tenure
as CIA Director,
Secretary-designee
Pompeo has excelled
as one of the nation's
key leaders
in national security
and foreign policy.
As a result of Mike
Pompeo's leadership,
America has been safer, more
secure, and more prosperous.
There is absolutely
no legitimate reason
that Secretary-designee
Pompeo's confirmation process
should not be done in a speedy
and bipartisan manner.
Even the Washington
Post editorial board --
hardly a cheerleader
for this administration --
published an editorial
yesterday with a simple,
straight-to-the-point headline:
Confirm Mike Pompeo.
Democrats and Republicans
should do
exactly that by coming together
and doing what is,
without question,
the right thing
for our country.
And with that, I will
take your questions.
Cecilia.
The Press: Thank you, Sarah.
The President came
out swinging today,
calling James Comey a "liar,"
a "leaker," a "slime ball."
Is he worried about
what he's saying?
Ms. Sanders: Not at all.
The American people see
right through the blatant
lies of a self-admitted leaker.
This is nothing more
than a poorly executed
PR stunt by Comey
to desperately rehabilitate
his tattered reputation
and enrich his own bank account
by peddling a book
that belongs on the bargain bin
of the fiction section.
Instead of being remembered
as a dedicated servant
in the pursuit of justice
like so many of his other
colleagues at the FBI,
Comey will be forever known
as a disgraced partisan
hack that broke
his sacred trust
with the President
of the United States,
the dedicated agents of the FBI,
and the American people
he vowed to faithfully serve.
One of the President's
greatest achievements
will go down as firing
Director James Comey.
The Press: And another topic,
quickly, if I may.
The Deputy Attorney General
was here yesterday.
Is the President going
to fire Rod Rosenstein?
Ms. Sanders: I don't have
any announcements at this time.
The President has voiced
some frustrations,
but beyond that,
I don't have anything to add.
John.
The Press: Sarah, the President,
a short time ago,
issued a pardon
of Scooter Libby,
the former Vice President's
Chief of Staff.
There are many people
who believe that Scooter Libby
was the victim of a Special
Counsel investigation run amuck.
The recent statements that we
have heard from the White House
would seem to indicate that you
feel much the same thing
about the Mueller investigation.
Was the President sending
some sort of signal
to the Mueller investigation
or about the Mueller
investigation
by pardoning Scooter Libby?
Ms. Sanders: Not at all.
One thing has nothing
to do with the other,
and every case should be
reviewed on their own merits.
Pardoning Libby was
the right thing to do,
after the principal witness
recanted her testimony.
The D.C. Court of Appeals panel
unanimously voted to restore
Mr. Libby's bar
membership after being
presented credible evidence
in support of his
version of events.
And it appears that that
key prosecution witness,
Judith Miller,
changed her recollection
of the events in question.
The Press: In the statement,
the pardoning statement today,
the President acknowledges
he doesn't know Scooter Libby.
What was it that convinced him
that Scooter Libby
deserved a pardon?
Ms. Sanders: The President
thought it was the right thing
to do.
Justin.
The Press: Thanks, Sarah.
I have two questions.
I wanted to ask
about the first --
The President,
at the beginning of the week,
said he expected a decision --
Ms. Sanders: Sorry, can you
speak up a little?
The Press: Sure, the President,
at the beginning of the week,
said he expected a decision
within 24 to 48 hours on Syria.
On Tuesday, he said a decision
would probably come that night.
But here we are on Friday,
and in a statement last night,
you said that no final
decision had been reached.
So, I'm wondering
if you could walk through
why the President hasn't met
his own timeline there,
and specifically, if it had
anything to do with the,
sort of, Syrian troop movement
that we saw after
his tweet on Wednesday,
sort of threatening
a missile strike.
Ms. Sanders:
No, we're continuing to have
ongoing conversations
with our partners and allies.
The President spoke with
President Macron of France,
again, earlier today.
We're continuing
to have ongoing meetings
and conversations here
at the White House.
And when we have
any further developments,
we'll let you know.
The Press: And then, because
it's Friday, I'm wondering if --
Ms. Sanders: Friday the 13th.
The Press: Yeah.
(Laughter.)
You could walk us
through exactly
what the President has --
Ms. Sanders: You guys all groan
like that's a bad thing.
The Press: -- committed
to Senator Gardner
in terms of both what
the Justice Department would do
and what the White House
would do in terms
of supporting legislation
on states that
legalize marijuana.
Ms. Sanders: I can confirm
the President
did speak with Senator Gardner
yesterday and again today.
We're always consulting
Congress about issues,
including states' rights,
of which the President
is a firm believer.
And the statement
that the Senator
put out earlier
today is accurate.
Steve.
The Press: You mentioned he's
spoken to President Macron.
How big a coalition does he have
for this expected
action in Syria?
Ms. Sanders: Again, I can't talk
about anything
that may or may not happen,
but I can tell you
that the President
and a number of individuals
within his administration
have spoken to a number
of our partners
and allies at various
levels across the world.
The Press: And is he satisfied
now that Syria was responsible
for the chemical weapons attack?
Ms. Sanders: Yes,
we're, again, confident
that both Syria
had responsibility
in this chemical
weapons attack,
but we also hold Russia
responsible for their failure
to stop chemical
weapons attacks
from taking place.
Josh.
The Press: It was reported today
that Michael Cohen,
the President's
personal attorney,
helped negotiate
a $1.6 million settlement
to a Playboy playmate.
It also emerged, today,
that Michael Cohen is under
criminal investigation
by the Southern
District of New York.
Is the President still
associated with Michael Cohen?
Does he continue to
consider Michael Cohen
someone he holds in confidence?
Ms. Sanders: I know that the
President has worked with him
as a personal attorney.
Beyond that, I don't have
anything else to add
about their relationship.
The Press: Is he concerned
about these developments?
Would the President like
to say anything about them?
Ms. Sanders: Look, the President
has been clear
that he has a deep concern
about the direction
the Special Counsel has taken.
The investigation started
as Russia collusion,
of which there was none.
The President has spoken
on this topic at length,
and I'd refer you back
to those comments.
The Press: What about Michael
Cohen's actions, though?
Does the President have
any concern with those?
Ms. Sanders: Again,
I would refer you
to Michael Cohen's
personal attorney.
That's simply reports right now,
but I can't get
anything beyond that.
Jill.
The Press: Just a follow-up
on that and then another topic.
Is Cohen still the President's
personal attorney?
Ms. Sanders: I'm not sure, Jill,
I'd have to check.
The Press: And I wanted to ask --
Ms. Sanders: I can only speak
about White House staff.
The Press: It looks like
Paul Ryan just endorsed
Kevin McCarthy for Speaker
in an appearance,
or an interview,
with "Meet the Press."
Does the President believe
that McCarthy should be
the next Speaker?
Ms. Sanders: The President has
a great relationship
with Kevin McCarthy.
But in terms of an announcement
about who he wants to see
as the next Speaker,
I don't have any announcements
on that front.
Jon.
The Press: On
the James Comey book,
some excerpts came out today.
He speaks of the President --
writes about the President
in very personal terms.
Were you surprised by that?
Was the President
surprised by that?
Ms. Sanders: I don't think
we're surprised by the fact
that James Comey continues
to spread false information.
The guy is known to be
a liar and a leaker,
and so there's not a lot
about James Comey
that we would find
to be very surprising.
The Press: And just really
quickly on the pardon
that came out today
for Scooter Libby.
The President, so far
in his time in office,
has issued three
presidential pardons.
One of those was to Joe Arpaio.
Is there a commonality,
in terms of what
the President looks for
when he pardons individuals?
Ms. Sanders: Again, every case
should be reviewed
on their own merits,
and that's what the President
has done in each of those.
Steven.
The Press: Yes, Sarah.
I'm wondering if
the administration has reacted
with any message to Moscow
after officials there
today said that the chemical
attack in Douma was faked
and staged with Britain's
direct involvement.
Ms. Sanders: Certainly, our
intelligence tells us otherwise.
I can't go beyond that.
But again, we have
a very high confidence
that Syria was responsible.
And once again,
Russia's failure to stop them
and their continued
disaction on this front
has been part of the problem.
April.
The Press: Sarah, what part does
the President bringing Russia
into the Syria equation
now cause for the delay
in the strike timeline?
Ms. Sanders: Again,
we are continuing to have
ongoing conversations
with partners and allies,
assess the information.
And once a decision is made,
we'll let you know.
Dave.
The Press: Thanks, Sarah.
The Justice Department
Inspector General
came out with his long-awaited
report this afternoon
on former FBI Deputy Director
Andrew McCabe,
saying that he improperly
leaked information
about the Clinton Foundation
investigation to a reporter,
and then lied
to James Comey about it
and, under oath,
to two FBI investigators.
Do you have a reaction to that?
And does that, in your mind,
validate the decision
to fire McCabe?
Ms. Sanders: I haven't seen
the full report,
but it sounds like two peas
in a pod with McCabe and Comey.
McCabe was fired in disgrace for
misconduct and lying about it.
Beyond that, I don't have
anything at this point.
Francesca.
The Press: Thank you, Sarah.
You said that James Comey
was a liar, that he's a leaker,
that he made false
representations or claims.
Other than what the President
tweeted this morning
about lying under oath
to Senator Grassley,
what exactly has he said
that's false or a lie?
Ms. Sanders: Comey
claimed reopening
the Clinton investigation
when he did was based on merit.
Now he says it was based
because of poll numbers.
Comey claimed the President told
him to stop investigating Flynn,
after he previously testified
that no one told him
to stop investigations.
He also -- even the media
has reported
that officials have determined
that Comey leaked four memos --
at least four that we know about
-- with classified information.
I think it's very clear that
Comey has a credibility problem.
The other thing is clear,
this is one of the few
issues in Washington
that both Democrats
and Republicans agree on.
He's been criticized
by the legal community
for leaking sensitive
information and organizations
promoting good government found
Comey's leaking
grounds for firing.
Multiple Democrats, including
some of the biggest leaders
in the Democrat party
have also attacked Comey.
Minority Leader
Pelosi said Comey,
was  maybe not
in the right job.
Senator Schumer said he was,
appalled by what Comey did
and  did not have confidence
in him any longer.
Senator Bernie Sanders
said Comey
acted in an outrageous way.
Clinton's running mate,
Senator Kaine, said Comey is,
responsible for
the lowest moment
in the history of the FBI.
Even Congresswoman Maxine Waters
said Comey has "no credibility."
The FBI should be independent
and not led by a political hack.
Comey's higher loyalty is pretty
clear that it's only to himself.
If you can get
this group of people
and others like Mark Meadows
and a number of others
to agree on something,
I think that you'd
have to be right.
The Press: Sarah, what about
the dossier, though?
Sarah, what about the dossier?
Did he also lie
about the dossier
in his conversation
with President Trump about that?
Ms. Sanders: The dossier is
false opposition research
that was funded by
the Clinton campaign
to attack the President.
It was used illegally to
justify spying on Americans.
And I think that's
quite the problem.
Jim.
The Press: Sarah,
what about the content
of the President's
attacks on Jim Comey,
your attacks on Jim Comey?
Isn't all of that a bit
unbecoming of the Presidency
of this White House
to go after him in such
a personal way like that?
Ms. Sanders: I think it --
The Press: Calling him
a "slime ball"
and a "liar" and a "leaker?"
Ms. Sanders: I think it's
unbecoming for the person
that is supposed
to be the top
law enforcement official
in the United States,
the person that is
supposed to protect
the people of this country,
to lie and leak
classified information,
certainly to falsify documents.
I think that's
a very big problem,
and somebody who has created
this problem for himself.
I didn't encourage Jim Comey
to go out and do a PR campaign.
Congress has asked Jim Comey to
come and testify multiple times,
of which he's denied
being able to do.
Yet he found time to sit down
with George Stephanopoulos
for five hours.
I think if anybody
has created this problem,
it's Jim Comey and he should be
the one held responsible.
The Press: Sarah, if I could
just follow up --
Ms. Sanders: I'm going to keep
moving, for the second time.
The Press: Other folks had two
questions. If I could just --
Ms. Sanders: Sure.
The Press: -- ask a second
follow-up question because --
Ms. Sanders: Because
it's Friday.
The Press: Well,
it's Friday, yeah. And you've --
Ms. Sanders: And you'd
probably get really upset,
and I don't need
that if I did.
The Press: No, no, no,
not at all, not at all.
(Laughter.)
No, but you've probably
seen this tweet.
It was a tweet that you posted
before the election in 2016,
"When you're attacking
FBI agents
because you're under criminal
investigation, you're losing."
What do you make of that now --
isn't that --
Ms. Sanders: The rank-and-file
FBI
are some of the greatest
people in this country.
We've repeated that
time and time again,
and certainly have the full
support of this administration.
I think that we've been
very clear, though,
how we feel about
some of the leadership
at the FBI,
particularly James Comey.
The Press: But when you go after
Comey and Rosenstein
and Mueller,
doesn't that mean you're losing?
Ms. Sanders: I did give you two,
Jim. I'm going to keep moving.
Go ahead.
The Press: Following up
with that, I mean,
one of the themes
of Comey's book
is the President's "disdain"
for the rule of the law
and his continued efforts
to publicly undermine federal
law enforcement officials.
So, how would you characterize
the President's attitude
towards the rule
of law and things
that he said publicly
about many of his
top federal law
enforcement officials?
Ms. Sanders: The President
has a great deal of respect
for the rule of law,
but the President does not have
a lot of respect for people
whose sole job is
to carry out the law
and they leak
classified information
and they lie to
the American public about it.
The Press: But it's not
just leakers;
it's his own Attorney General,
it's his own
Deputy Attorney General,
it's Special Counsel,
it's the FBI,
it's judges who make decisions
that he doesn't like.
Ms. Sanders: I'm sorry, I'm not
-- what was the question?
The Press: There's a whole list
of federal law enforcement
officials
that he has undermined.
It's not just people who have
proven to leak information.
Ms. Sanders: The President
hasn't undermined them
in any capacity.
Just because he calls out things
that he finds to be
problematic or concerning,
I think that he should do that.
If members of the FBI are
leaking classified information,
the President should absolutely
call that to question.
You guys spend hours upon hours
every single day
praising Jim Comey,
propping him up, giving him
the biggest platform.
We shouldn't be praising him;
we should be putting him down,
we should be taking
him off of air,
instead of giving him
minute after minute.
This country has a lot
of real problems.
We should be talking
about the economy.
We should talk about Syria.
We should talk about
the drug crisis.
But instead, we're going
to talk about Jim Comey.
You guys will cover
it endlessly,
all day today, all day tomorrow,
and my guess is every day
next week with very little time
given to the issues
that people care about.
So, the President has
every right to call out
that individual
that you guys are propping up,
and say that there are problems
and that we should be
concerned about it.
Charlie.
The Press: Thank you, Sarah.
This morning,
James Comey admitted
that he didn't tell
the President
about the political source --
Ms. Sanders: I'm sorry.
Can you speak up?
The Press: This morning,
James Comey said
that he didn't inform
the President
of the political source
of the dossier.
Was the President
surprised to hear that?
Did Director Comey
ever tell him
about the sourcing of the
political dossier against him?
Ms. Sanders: I'm not sure about
that specific conversation,
but I know that it's been
documented many times over now
that the dossier is
false opposition research
funded by the Clinton campaign
and used to attack
the President. I think --
The Press: And a second
question, because it's Friday.
Did the President
speak to former
Vice President Dick Cheney
about the Scooter Libby pardon
either before or after it --
Ms. Sanders: I'm not aware of
any conversations on that.
John.
The Press: Yeah.
Thank you, Sarah.
Three Republican state
senators from Missouri
wrote the President yesterday
saying that the embattled
Governor Eric Greitens
should resign from office.
He has serious charges
of sexual abuse against him,
faces impeachment,
and refuses to resign.
They concluded that,
as a former Navy SEAL,
he would salute and resign
if his Commander-in-Chief
asked him to.
Did the President
receive the letter?
What is his response?
And will he ask Governor
Greitens to step down?
Ms. Sanders: I don't have an
official response at this time,
but it's certainly something
that is very concerning
and something that we're
taking very seriously.
And I'll keep you updated
as we have something.
Sarah.
The Press: Thank you, Sarah.
So, concerning the summit
with Prime Minister Abe
next week in Florida,
does the President plan to push
for a bilateral free
trade agreement with Japan?
Ms. Sanders: I'm not going
to get ahead of the President's
conversations with
Prime Minister Abe,
but trade will certainly
be something that is discussed,
as well as the
ongoing conversations
around North Korea.
The Press: Sarah,
does the President
have another NSC
meeting today on Syria?
Ms. Sanders: I'm sorry?
The Press: Will the President
be having another
NSC meeting today on Syria?
Ms. Sanders: There is another
national security
meeting later this afternoon
at the deputies' level.
Ayesha.
The Press: Thanks.
I wanted to ask about
the pardoning process.
It seems like we've had
these three pardons;
they all were
somewhat high-profile
or had gotten media attention.
How is the President deciding
when to take action on a case?
I mean, with Arpaio,
he hadn't been sentenced yet;
the Scooter Libby case
was very old.
So how are you deciding when
to take action on these cases?
And can a normal person
who feels like
they've been unjustly convicted,
can they get their case
to the White House?
I mean, there's a
Justice Department process,
but it seems like the President
is taking special interest
in certain cases.
Ms. Sanders: Again,
the President has exercised
constitutional authority,
and he determines when
and how he's going to use that
when it comes to
the pardon process.
He looks at each
one individually,
and makes a decision,
and we make that announcement.
Nadia.
The Press: Thank you, Sarah.
The OPCW is sending
inspectors to Syria.
Do you think this is
a futile exercise,
since you already
have the evidence
that actually they have
chemical weapons?
Ms. Sanders: Once again, we are
confident in the intelligence
that we have
and in the fact
that we know
that Syria is responsible
for these actions.
I'll take one last question.
Brian.
The Press: Thanks, Sarah,
I'll do two.
One on Syria and one on
the Department of Justice.
On Syria, the President
has publicly said
that he wants to
get out of Syria.
Has this strike changed
his mind on that?
And is he considering
other options,
other than a plan to pull out
U.S. forces from Syria?
And if you could just --
Ms. Sanders: I'm sorry,
what was the last part?
The Press: Is he considering
other options
other than a long-term strategy
to get U.S. forces out of Syria?
Ms. Sanders: I don't have any
additional changes to policy
in Syria at this time.
And in terms of options, all of
our options are on the table,
and we're continuing
to look at those
and we'll make
an announcement then.
The Press: And so,
I have a question about
the Department of Justice.
What does the President have
to say to Republican lawmakers
who believe that firing Mueller
would be  suicide,
as Grassley has said,
or firing Rosenstein
could be the end
of the presidency
for Donald Trump,
as Lindsey Graham has said?
Ms. Sanders: I'm not going to
get into hypothetical situations.
The President has taken
no action on that front,
and I'm not going to get into a
back-and-forth on hypotheticals.
The Press:
Does he have any response
for Republican lawmakers
who are counseling him
not to take an action like that?
Ms. Sanders: As with
a number of issues,
the President talks to
a lot of different lawmakers
on a number of topics.
He's going to continue
consulting with them,
not just on this,
but on some very big issues
that our country is facing,
and that's what his
focus is actually on.
Thanks so much, guys,
Happy Friday.